#Kickstarting an Adventure
##Stacey Booysen

Louise was in need of help in order to make a few important decisions on a potential Kickstarter campaign. To help her, we needed to provide concise readings of a large amount of data in order to assist her with breaking down the various factors that might contribute to a successful or failed Kickstarter. The overall goal was to turn the data into something visually digestible while analyzing results for any sign of helpful points. 
As a relative beginner to Excel and its various functions, the challenges for me came firstly in familiarizing myself with the formulas I would need. Working through the course examples helped me to get more familiar with the look and layout of Excel. I certainly haven’t memorized them, but I was able to become more familiar with them and, in doing so, could find mistakes more easily. 
Some problems that occurred were incorrect calculations during the second part of the project where we needed to create the line graph. I had all the columns and rows set up and filled with numbers and formulas, but when I went to make the graph, it looked nothing like the example. Trouble-shooting here took me a while, only to find that it was simply that I used the wrong column as a source for part of the formula, and as a result, my numbers and graph were completely off.
Even though it was a frustrating experience, I am glad I had the chance to see how easily the whole data-set can be messed up if one aspect is off. Even though my formulas were correct, using column “E” instead of “D” threw the entire chart into disarray. It was refreshing to finally see the chart come together correctly once the problem was found, but it definitely took a second to get there.
Beyond the issues with the columns, there were only minor and brief hang-ups here and there. Smaller issues included the formula not copying correctly all the way down a column, or getting stuck on an equation where a number was trying to divide into zero. Sine I had seen examples of these issues already, I had a better base for understanding how to fix them, and in the end they didn’t throw off anything major.
In terms of the data itself, the two biggest conclusions that could be drawn from the Launch Date set, were that May and June are peak times for successful launches while December is at the lowest. One might be able to assume that the holidays like Christmas around December take priority as far as money is concerned, so people are less likely to have disposable income to fund a Kickstarter. The rates for failed Kickstarters, however, seemed a little more consistent throughout the months, with the only notable spikes or dips starting in September and going through to December. 
For the Outcome Based Goals graph, it can be surmised that the goals that were less than $1,000 had the most successful projects documented. While the success rate goes down the higher the goal is, there was an interesting spike $35,000 to $45,000 range, after which it dropped down significantly once again. There would need to be more research into that section of data to determine exactly why that high amount was successful but the lower ranges just before that amount were not.
In terms of limitations for this data set, there were a few notable ones. When filtering for ‘plays’ only, the samples appear to only go up to 2017, giving a 4–5-year gap where we are unable to see any recent changes in the rise or fall in success for plays on Kickstarter. Considering that COVID occurred just a little over a year ago, the data could already be vastly different now from how it was in 2017.
Other graphs that could have worked well for visual representation are the bar graphs, especially since there were a maximum of 3 bars to potentially show. It would create a clean and easy-to-read visual for the data. A Pareto chart also looked visually straightforward in terms of the success and failure of various pledge goals. When filtering the data down into a few elements like we did for Launch Date and Outcome Based charts, it seemed like bolder graphs might look best.

Preforming 
